Inferring Semantic Layout for Hierarchical Text-to-Image Synthesis(2018)
https://arxiv.org/pdf/1801.05091.pdf

Instead of learning a direct mapping from text to image, they propose an alternative approach that constructs semantic layout as an intermediate representation between text and image.
Semantic layout : a structure of scene based on object instances and provides fine-grained information of scene, such as the number of objets, object category, location, size, shape, etc. 

1. The layout generator
constructs a semantic label map from a text description

2. The image generator 
converts the estimated layout to an image using the text. 


- subtasks
1. Estimate the bounding box layout of an image using the box generator.
2. Refine the shape of each object inside the box by the shape generator.

Generating semantic layout 장점 
1. semantic layout provides instance wise annotations on generated images, which can be directly exploited for automated scene parsing and object retrieval.
2. it offers an interactive interface for controling image generation proess; users can modify the semantic layout to generate a desired image by removing/adding objects, changing size and location of objects, etc.


-Dataset
MS-COCO

Difference with previous approaches
1. 
previous papers: Require ground-truth layouts for generation
New methods : Infers the semantic layout, and more generally applicable to various generation tasks.
Can integrate existing segmentation to pixel generation methods to generate an image conditioned on a layout inferred by this.

2. 
previous papers about inferring scene structure for image generation 
- predict such specific types of structure for image generation
This method : Aims to predict semantic label maps, which is a general representation of natural images.

Inferring Semantic Layout from Text
- Bounding Box Generation




**Keywords
1. GAN
GAN으로 인물사진을 생성해 낼때, 인물사진을 만들어 내는 것이 Generator(생성자), 만들어진 인물사진을 평가하는 것을 Discriminator(구분자)라고 함. 
Generator 와 Discriminator가 서로 대립(Adversarial)하며 서로의 성능을 점차 개선해 나가는 것이 주요 개념. 
--> 비지도 학습에 해당 
https://ebbnflow.tistory.com/167

Generator : 생성된 input을 받아 실제 데이터와 비슷한 데이터를 만들어내도록 학습 (입력 데이터의 distribution을 알아내도록 학습한다, 이 분포를 재현해서 원 데이터의 분포와 차이가 없도록 한다.)
Discriminator : 실제 데이터와 생성자가 생성한 가짜 데이터를 구별하도록 학습 (실 데이터인지 가짜 데이터인지 구별해서 각각에 대한 확률을 추정)

